# AT-CPAEIC
Automatic Tool for  Compliation and Preprocessing of hourly Aviation Emission Inventory in China

This tool is the major works in Master thesis of MSc. Qi Liu (Title: COMPILATION AND PREPROCESSING METHOD OF NEAR REAL-TIME CIVIL AVIATION EMISSIONS INVENTORY, Shenyang Aerospace University, SAU) and the advisors are Prof. Xuelei Zhang (Chinese Academy of Sciences, CAS) and Asst. Prof. Xinyuan Cao (SAU). It was coded by Qi Liu for the FORTRAN parts and Qingqing Tong for the Python parts.
More detailed user mannual  and related documentations are still under writting ...

Due to the advantage of short time-consuming, the proportion of civil aviation transportation in China was increased year by year, which led to the increasing of the number of airports and airlines, and the deterioration of airport surrounding environment. Timely compiling and updating the emission inventory of air pollutants released from civil aviation airports is urgently needed in China, as appling the inventory in air quality models would provide basic data supports for prediction of pollution levels and making control policies.
Through the collection of relevant aviation information of 233 airports in China, the Landing and Take Off (LTO) cycle was divided into 8 phases, and different impact factors of aircraft emissions had been considered. Based on the bottom-up approach, an innovative compilation technique for automatic producing the hourly-scale national civil aviation emission inventory that can be used in air quality forecasting was developed, and all its codes and related data were open source provided. The new compilation technique was mainly developed via the mix programming of Python and Fortran, and its codes can be devided into three modules: the automatic data acquisition module of near real-time flight activity, the automatic calculation module of aviation emissions, and the automatic preprocessing module of emission inventory (includes temporal, horizontal and simple vertical spatial allocations, and chemical species mapping) can be used in generating the model ready files which drive the air quality models, such as the CMAQ model.
The Shapefile of 233 airports was further generated to carry out the spatial allocation works when treated the airport emissions as area sources. Then, we compared its results with the treatment of airport emissions as point sources, and found that the latter one would lead to large biases in emission preprocessing processes.
